so let's just kind of think a little bit
about so I'm gonna ask one or two out of
the other questions or read out a couple
of questions so is refocusing an
addiction onto your work a word of the
goal here what happens when your work no
longer fulfills him or he becomes
addicted to work
and then we'll get to psychology in FPS
and RTS too so the first thing is let's
just think a little bit about kind of
like addictive personalities so a lot of
people that I work with say that they
have an addictive personality and if you
think about it you know they'll say like
okay I used to be addicted to like video
games and now I'm addicted to like sex
or I mean that's not gonna happen
but you know they'll say that are
addicted to you know alcohol now they
sort of trade one addiction for another
and so like some people and so they kind
of say that
you know we have I'm I have an addictive
personality and so I think that like
some of the addictive personality has
truth to it there's some neuroscience
evidence evidence that there is
something like an addictive personality
but most of the time I think the reason
people trade one addiction for another
is because they're not dealing with the
underlying cause of addiction so there's
a great concept from Buddhist philosophy
called the realm of hungry ghosts and in
like would this like mythology or
cosmology or whatever you want to call
it they have heaven they have earth and
they have hell in between earth and hell
there's this thing called the realm of
hungry ghosts in the realm of hungry
ghosts is like full of these souls that
are always hungry and like never feel
full so no matter how much they like eat
they can eat and they can eat and they
can eat they just never feel satisfied
and when I think of an addiction I think
about the realm of hungry ghosts so
people who are addicted are usually like
looking for something right so I think
what Henri is looking for is like human
connection I think he's looking for
accomplishment I think he's looking for
like some sense of thrill like he wants
to be someone I can only imagine you
know I mean I had periods of my life
where I was in no one and what I wanted
more than anything else I tried to climb
to the top of the Warcraft three ladder
because like that felt like being
somewhere and so we have these these
basic parts of us that if we try to
fulfill them with one thing or another
thing it's like not gonna work the only
way to fill some holes is like with the
thing that that you know the hole fits
and so if what you need is like
authentic human connection so I I deal
with this a lot in terms of like sex
addiction so people who have you know
bad sex addictions what they're really
looking for is like connection with
another human being and they feel that
way and the way that other humans like
respond to them after they have sex is
like very warm and loving and they
cuddle and they cook on breakfast the
next morning and what they really want
does that day in and day out but the
only way that they know how to get that
is by like having sex
so sex-addiction its core if we look at
behavioral addictions there's like a
hungry ghost in there right there's like
some there's a part of them that feels
unfulfilled and wants to feel like loved
and valued is a person in the only way
that they know how to get that is
through sex and so they can change that
they can change the sex for something
else but until they feel like they're
like loved until they feel good about
themselves until they feel valued like
on it on a stable basis and chances are
that some evidence suggests that you
need to kind of feel that way for about
two years that 50 percent of this stuff
can just go away and be cured and that's
kind of a slightly different I'm drawing
on some science from kind of another
disease or not disease but a disorder
called borderline personality disorder I
don't know if you guys are familiar with
that or not but yeah two years so people
with borderline personality disorder who
also oftentimes have addictive behaviors
and also oftentimes have like high-risk
sexual behaviors their basic problem is
that their sense of self is like not
well-formed so what's on the inside is
like empty so what happens is like
nature abhors a vacuum and so they fill
themselves up with the way that other
people treat them and that causes them
to engage in a lot of like high-risk
behavior because the way they feel on
the inside depends on how other people
treat them yeah so I recently discovered
that like BPD is way more common maybe
we can just talk entirely about be
and so I think it's it's sort of like
this Hungry Ghost thing where in order
for someone to be cured of BPD which is
possible and people don't really realize
that if you can be in a stable
relationship where someone can put up
with your ops and downs like put up with
kind of your fear of abandonment for two
years and not abandon you 50% of people
get better and that they sort of get
cured is then they sort of start to
realize oh I actually like am kind of a
stable person I have value I've been
able to see this and it's been
reinforced enough times in a particular
way that sort of makes them feel like
calm cells
so kind of going back to the addictive
personality I think that you know you
can trade one addiction for another
uhh
so BPD and abusive behavior so we can
talk about BPD if you guys want to but
let me just finish up with addictive
personality then we can kind of dive
back into BPD so
I think that you can trade one addiction
for another and you can also throw
yourself into work tom am I supposed to
be doing something about that game just
chatting I don't know you can throw
yourself into your work but I think at
the end of the day
you know until you satisfy like whatever
is missing inside you like that thing is
always going to be there and you'll
always look for some other way to
satisfy it
and we're gamers I think a lot of
getting away from video games which is
kind of what I was trying to push Henry
on is that if we think about it like you
know when he quit Clash of Kings like he
felt alone he felt depressed he felt
like he didn't have friends anymore and
so you're not going to be able to quit
the game if your primary community is
the game
I see okay thanks so I do think you can
sort of throw yourself into your work
and that can be bad or I think it's less
bad because on the one hand you know
you're at least you're doing something
productive but I still think it's a
problem because at the end of the day
you're still not targeting like the real
thing so whether you're addicted to
games or work I guess it's better to be
addicted to games because at least
you're gonna be making money so the
spending money but at the end of the day
I think true piece comes from sort of
resolving the
the resolving sort of a core conflict